README.md, before:

# nordic_app_dfu_playzone
- [nordic_app_dfu_playzone](#nordic_app_dfu_playzone)
  - [Summary](#summary)
  - [Requirements](#requirements)
  - [Flash Memory Layout](#flash-memory-layout)
  - [Procedures](#procedures)
    - [Private and Public keys (`nrfutil keys`)](#private-and-public-keys-nrfutil-keys)
      - [generating private key (`create_private_key.cmd`)](#generating-private-key-create_private_keycmd)
      - [generating public key for c usage (`create_public_key_c.cmd`)](#generating-public-key-for-c-usage-create_public_key_ccmd)
    - [Merging bootloader and an Application(+softdevice) images (`nrfutil settings`,`mergehex`)](#merging-bootloader-and-an-applicationsoftdevice-images-nrfutil-settingsmergehex)
    - [Performing DFU](#performing-dfu)
      - [Generating update packages (`nrfutil pkg`)](#generating-update-packages-nrfutil-pkg)
      - [Uploading bootloader and flashing application through phone](#uploading-bootloader-and-flashing-application-through-phone)
      - [Uploading bootloader and flashing application through PC](#uploading-bootloader-and-flashing-application-through-pc)
  - [References](#references)
    - [Documentation regarding nordic's DFU](#documentation-regarding-nordics-dfu)


## Summary

from the root folder of this repo run(where this README.md is located):
```diff
--create powershell scripts for the entire process?
```
```cmd
.\compile.cmd
.\nordic_packaging_utils_playzone\create_private_key.cmd
.\nordic_packaging_utils_playzone\create_public_key_c.cmd
.\nordic_packaging_utils_playzone\generate_mergehex_image.cmd
.\nordic_packaging_utils_playzone\upload_image.cmd mergedhex.hex
.\nordic_packaging_utils_playzone\generate_dfu_package.bat
```

## Requirements

1) `git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/YoraiLevi/nordic_app_dfu_playzone.git`
2) SDK v16.0.0
   * run `SDK_SYMLINK.ps1`  
   the examples require the sdk to be located two folders up the git repo's folder
3) Python 3.7.9 (as of 12/07/2021 3.9,3.10 do not work, untested on later versions of 3.7.*)
   * install with [chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/install#:~:text=now%20run%20the%20following%20command%3A) (requires admin)  
   `choco install python --version 3.7.9`
   * install from python.org  
    [Python 3.7.9](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-379/#:~:text=Changelog-,files,-Version)
   * upgrade pip for installing packages from pypi(`recommended`, **not as admin**):  
   `py -3.7 -m pip install --upgrade pip`
4) nrfutil globally on python 3.7.X (**don't** install python packages **as admin**)  
   `py -3.7 -m pip install nrfutil`
5) ~~[nRF Command Line Tools](https://www.nordicsemi.com/Products/Development-tools/nRF-Command-Line-Tools/Download#infotabs)~~
    * ~~I don't remember but I think I had encountered an issue that forced me to reinstall this~~
    * nrfjprog errors out always:

      ```cmd
      ERROR: The --family option given with the command (or the default from nrfjprog.ini)  
      ERROR: does not match the device connected.
      ```

6) J-Link + Segger embedded studio
   * no clue atm
7) nRF connect
   * basically gui to upload and manage stuff meanwhile i have no clue how to upload through jlink manually

## Flash Memory Layout

there is an xml file describing that. idk

## Procedures

### Private and Public keys (`nrfutil keys`)
the `nrfutil keys` utility creates private,public keys including c implementation:

#### generating private key (`create_private_key.cmd`)

```
nrfutil keys generate private.pem
```

#### generating public key for c usage (`create_public_key_c.cmd`)

```
nrfutil keys display --key pk --format code private.pem > dfu_public_key.c
```

### Merging bootloader and an Application(+softdevice) images (`nrfutil settings`,`mergehex`)

```cmd
echo "## Creating bootloader settings based on app.hex"
nrfutil settings generate --family NRF52 --application app.hex --application-version 1 --bootloader-version 1 --bl-settings-version 1 settings.hex
echo.
echo "## Merging bootloader settings and app.hex into merged.hex"
mergehex -m app.hex settings.hex -o merged.hex
echo.
```

### Performing DFU

#### Generating update packages (`nrfutil pkg`)

 The following combinations are supported (12/07/2021):  
|1 item|2 items|3 items|
|--|--|--|
BL only: Supported✅.|BL + SD: Supported✅.|BL + SD + APP: Supported✅.
SD only: Supported✅ (SD of same Major Version).|BL + APP: Not Supported❌ (use two packages instead).
APP only: Supported✅ (external or internal).|SD + APP: Supported✅ (SD of same Major Version)

command prompt:

```cmd
nrfutil pkg generate ^
--key-file keys\private.pem ^
--hw-version 52 ^
--debug-mode ^
--application app\pca10056\s140\ses\Output\Release\Exe\ble_app_blinky_pca10056_s140.hex ^
--application-version-string "0.0.0" ^
--bootloader bl\pca10056_s140_ble_debug\ses\Output\Release\Exe\secure_bootloader_ble_s140_pca10056_debug.hex ^
--bootloader-version 0 ^
--softdevice softdevice\s140\hex\s140_nrf52_7.0.1_softdevice.hex ^
--sd-req 0xCA ^
--sd-id 0xCA ^
BL_SD_APP_package.zip
nrfutil pkg generate ^
--key-file keys\private.pem ^
--hw-version 52 ^
--debug-mode ^
--application app\pca10056\s140\ses\Output\Release\Exe\ble_app_blinky_pca10056_s140.hex ^
--application-version-string "0.0.0" ^
APP_package.zip
```

additional flags:

```cmd
One of : |s140_nrf52_6.0.0|0xA9|, |s140_nrf52_6.1.0|0xAE|, |s140_nrf52_6.1.1|0xB6|, |s140_nrf52_7.0.0|0xC1|, |s140_nrf52_7.0.1|0xCA|
--sd-boot-validation [NO_VALIDATION|VALIDATE_GENERATED_CRC|VALIDATE_GENERATED_SHA256|VALIDATE_ECDSA_P256_SHA256]
--app-boot-validation [NO_VALIDATION|VALIDATE_GENERATED_CRC|VALIDATE_GENERATED_SHA256|VALIDATE_ECDSA_P256_SHA256]
```

#### Uploading bootloader and flashing application through phone

1) download [nRF Toolbox for Bluetooth LE](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=no.nordicsemi.android.nrftoolbox&hl=en)
2) open and press DFU
3) select the Dfu Target of your choice (DfuTarg)
4) select file
5) upload

#### Uploading bootloader and flashing application through PC

??????????????????????????????????????????????????????????  
the cli doesn't work for me atm?  
probably with nrf connect + ble dongle ??????  
jtagging  




## References

[nRF52832-buttonless-dfu-development-tutorial
](https://github.com/gamnes/nRF52832-buttonless-dfu-development-tutorial) - Seem like a nice tutorial just running `.bat` files

### Documentation regarding nordic's DFU

* [Bootloader and DFU modules](https://infocenter.nordicsemi.com/topic/sdk_nrf5_v16.0.0/lib_bootloader_modules.html)
  * [Memory Layout](https://infocenter.nordicsemi.com/index.jsp?topic=%2Fsdk_nrf5_v16.0.0%2Flib_bootloader.html&anchor=lib_bootloader_memory) - Nice table + image
  * [Generating and displaying private and public keys](https://infocenter.nordicsemi.com/index.jsp?topic=%2Fug_nrfutil%2FUG%2Fnrfutil%2Fnrfutil_keys_generate_display.html)

Commit message:

TODO: how to add boot to dfu? from app?\n how to debug when have bootloader?

README.md, after:

# nordic_app_dfu_playzone
- [nordic_app_dfu_playzone](#nordic_app_dfu_playzone)
  - [Summary](#summary)
  - [Requirements](#requirements)
  - [Flash Memory Layout](#flash-memory-layout)
  - [Procedures](#procedures)
    - [Private and Public keys (`nrfutil keys`)](#private-and-public-keys-nrfutil-keys)
      - [generating private key (`create_private_key.cmd`)](#generating-private-key-create_private_keycmd)
      - [generating public key for c usage (`create_public_key_c.cmd`)](#generating-public-key-for-c-usage-create_public_key_ccmd)
    - [Merging bootloader and an Application(+softdevice) images (`nrfutil settings`,`mergehex`)](#merging-bootloader-and-an-applicationsoftdevice-images-nrfutil-settingsmergehex)
      - [generating bootloader settings page](#generating-bootloader-settings-page)
    - [Performing DFU](#performing-dfu)
      - [Generating update packages (`nrfutil pkg`)](#generating-update-packages-nrfutil-pkg)
      - [Uploading bootloader and flashing application through phone](#uploading-bootloader-and-flashing-application-through-phone)
      - [Uploading bootloader and flashing application through PC](#uploading-bootloader-and-flashing-application-through-pc)
  - [References](#references)
    - [Documentation regarding nordic's DFU](#documentation-regarding-nordics-dfu)


## Summary

from the root folder of this repo run(where this README.md is located):
```diff
--create powershell scripts for the entire process?
```
```cmd
.\compile.cmd
.\nordic_packaging_utils_playzone\create_private_key.cmd
.\nordic_packaging_utils_playzone\create_public_key_c.cmd
.\nordic_packaging_utils_playzone\generate_mergehex_image.cmd
<!-- .\nordic_packaging_utils_playzone\upload_image.cmd mergedhex.hex -->
.\nordic_packaging_utils_playzone\generate_dfu_package.bat
```

## Requirements

1) `git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/YoraiLevi/nordic_app_dfu_playzone.git`
2) SDK v16.0.0
   * run `SDK_SYMLINK.ps1`  
   the examples require the sdk to be located two folders up the git repo's folder
3) Python 3.7.9 (as of 12/07/2021 3.9,3.10 do not work, untested on later versions of 3.7.*)
   * install with [chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/install#:~:text=now%20run%20the%20following%20command%3A) (requires admin)  
   `choco install python --version 3.7.9`
   * install from python.org  
    [Python 3.7.9](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-379/#:~:text=Changelog-,files,-Version)
   * upgrade pip for installing packages from pypi(`recommended`, **not as admin**):  
   `py -3.7 -m pip install --upgrade pip`
4) nrfutil globally on python 3.7.X (**don't** install python packages **as admin**)  
   `py -3.7 -m pip install nrfutil`
5) ~~[nRF Command Line Tools](https://www.nordicsemi.com/Products/Development-tools/nRF-Command-Line-Tools/Download#infotabs)~~
    * ~~I don't remember but I think I had encountered an issue that forced me to reinstall this~~
    * nrfjprog errors out always:

      ```cmd
      ERROR: The --family option given with the command (or the default from nrfjprog.ini)  
      ERROR: does not match the device connected.
      ```

6) J-Link + Segger embedded studio
   * no clue atm
7) nRF connect
   * basically gui to upload and manage stuff meanwhile i have no clue how to upload through jlink manually

## Flash Memory Layout

there is an xml file describing that. idk

## Procedures

### Private and Public keys (`nrfutil keys`)
the `nrfutil keys` utility creates private,public keys including c implementation:

#### generating private key (`create_private_key.cmd`)

```
nrfutil keys generate private.pem
```

#### generating public key for c usage (`create_public_key_c.cmd`)

```
nrfutil keys display --key pk --format code private.pem > dfu_public_key.c
```

### Merging bootloader and an Application(+softdevice) images (`nrfutil settings`,`mergehex`)

#### [generating bootloader settings page](https://infocenter.nordicsemi.com/index.jsp?topic=%2Fug_nrfutil%2FUG%2Fnrfutil%2Fnrfutil_settings_generate_display.html)
The bootloader settings page is required on the device so that it can boot the application. Among other information, this page contains the CRC value and length of the bootable application (if present). This CRC value is calculated on boot-up to verify that a valid application is present.

```cmd
echo "## Creating bootloader settings based on app.hex"
nrfutil settings generate --family NRF52 --application app.hex --application-version 1 --bootloader-version 1 --bl-settings-version 1 settings.hex
echo.
echo "## Merging bootloader settings and app.hex into merged.hex"
mergehex -m app.hex settings.hex -o merged.hex
echo.
```

### Performing DFU

#### Generating update packages (`nrfutil pkg`)

 The following combinations are supported (12/07/2021):  
|1 item|2 items|3 items|
|--|--|--|
BL only: Supported✅.|BL + SD: Supported✅.|BL + SD + APP: Supported✅.
SD only: Supported✅ (SD of same Major Version).|BL + APP: Not Supported❌ (use two packages instead).
APP only: Supported✅ (external or internal).|SD + APP: Supported✅ (SD of same Major Version)

command prompt:

```cmd
nrfutil pkg generate ^
--key-file keys\private.pem ^
--hw-version 52 ^
--debug-mode ^
--application app\pca10056\s140\ses\Output\Release\Exe\ble_app_blinky_pca10056_s140.hex ^
--application-version-string "0.0.0" ^
--bootloader bl\pca10056_s140_ble_debug\ses\Output\Release\Exe\secure_bootloader_ble_s140_pca10056_debug.hex ^
--bootloader-version 0 ^
--softdevice softdevice\s140\hex\s140_nrf52_7.0.1_softdevice.hex ^
--sd-req 0xCA ^
--sd-id 0xCA ^
BL_SD_APP_package.zip
nrfutil pkg generate ^
--key-file keys\private.pem ^
--hw-version 52 ^
--debug-mode ^
--application app\pca10056\s140\ses\Output\Release\Exe\ble_app_blinky_pca10056_s140.hex ^
--application-version-string "0.0.0" ^
APP_package.zip
```

additional flags:

```cmd
One of : |s140_nrf52_6.0.0|0xA9|, |s140_nrf52_6.1.0|0xAE|, |s140_nrf52_6.1.1|0xB6|, |s140_nrf52_7.0.0|0xC1|, |s140_nrf52_7.0.1|0xCA|
--sd-boot-validation [NO_VALIDATION|VALIDATE_GENERATED_CRC|VALIDATE_GENERATED_SHA256|VALIDATE_ECDSA_P256_SHA256]
--app-boot-validation [NO_VALIDATION|VALIDATE_GENERATED_CRC|VALIDATE_GENERATED_SHA256|VALIDATE_ECDSA_P256_SHA256]
```

#### Uploading bootloader and flashing application through phone

1) download [nRF Toolbox for Bluetooth LE](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=no.nordicsemi.android.nrftoolbox&hl=en)
2) open and press DFU
3) select the Dfu Target of your choice (DfuTarg)
4) select file
5) upload

#### Uploading bootloader and flashing application through PC

??????????????????????????????????????????????????????????  
the cli doesn't work for me atm?  
probably with nrf connect + ble dongle ??????  
jtagging  




## References

[nRF52832-buttonless-dfu-development-tutorial
](https://github.com/gamnes/nRF52832-buttonless-dfu-development-tutorial) - Seem like a nice tutorial just running `.bat` files

### Documentation regarding nordic's DFU

* [Bootloader and DFU modules](https://infocenter.nordicsemi.com/topic/sdk_nrf5_v16.0.0/lib_bootloader_modules.html)
  * [Memory Layout](https://infocenter.nordicsemi.com/index.jsp?topic=%2Fsdk_nrf5_v16.0.0%2Flib_bootloader.html&anchor=lib_bootloader_memory) - Nice table + image
  * [Generating and displaying private and public keys](https://infocenter.nordicsemi.com/index.jsp?topic=%2Fug_nrfutil%2FUG%2Fnrfutil%2Fnrfutil_keys_generate_display.html)
